1a wede# August 09, 2024
Today, I started my GitHub account and repository. I'm excited to start using GitHub for my projects!

# September 04, 2024
The Bolt: Light Sensor is one of the three sensors that we have gone over in the lessons. This sensor specifically allows us to program the Bolt to react differently based on the amount of light we expose the bolt to. It becomes light sensitive meaning that less light can create one reaction and more light can create another depending on how one programs it. For example in our lesson, we could get the Bolt develops data and based on the light exposure, with the data it is able to produce an image that has been programmed to display according to that exposure level. The Bolt can have different functions to react towards based on the surroundings in this case the light. This function could significantly help when one is trying to observe changes in the environment. Whether the light from the environment is increasing or decreasing. In this way data can be derived and used for further projects. Overall, the Light sensor function allows the Bolt to react to different light based on the dimmness or brightness of the environment which can impact the movement or appearance of the Bolt. 

# September 11, 2024
For Me: Nothing went wrong at all at least on my part. The instructions were clear and straight to the point. That's why I didn't face any difficulties following the instructions provided. Therefore, you did a good job in giving the instructions, although at the beginning considering others I would say next time have the whole class follow along so that there isn't anyone left behind or confused.
For You: I didn't have any issues at all with this assignment so I don't really have much to say. Like I said the instructions were super clear and straight to the point without anything else that could potentially cause it be confusing.

# September 17, 2024
This is a free week.

# September 24, 2024
Ease of Use: Python is easier because it is more straightforward and more precise. It actually makes you interact more and understand the properties of the language better. Problem-Solving: The two had specific instructions that were clear and easy to understand which helped me look back at the work to figure out what could possibly be wrong. Flexibility: I have more flexibility and control on python because I am able to code stuff specifically to how I want it without a whole process. Real-World Application: It can help me program website or games. It is something that specific careers look for and it could help you figure out issues in the programming of certain things outside in the real world if one is encountered.

# September 30, 2024
Computer science has allowed there to be many resourceful sources in the world. For example right now, I am using a product of computer science. Without computer science, half of what we know if not more would not exist. Such as machinery that has been programmed, websites, apps, and simple things like phone calls on the phone would not exist. We would be back to the old days in which everything had to be set manually. Processes would take longer and the advancements in technology would not even cross our minds. Currently computer science, has inspired many people into creating what we have now. Resources that have become vital overtime as we grow more dependent on it. If for whatever reason it stopped exisiting we would be lost for sure.

# October 07, 2024
Job Title: Computer Programmer
Job Description: The main responsibilities or tasks that computer programmers have to accomplish are basically writing code, making programs, and scripts. They also must test the code and all their work overall as well as update, analyze, and collaborate in their projects. 
Skills Required: A variety of skills are needed such as the basic communication, organizational, multitasking, and attention to detal skills. More hardcore skills needed are the familiarization of programming languages, the understanding of software development, data structures and algorithms, and understanding of databases.
Education and Experience: It really varies but some computer programmers only require an associate degree, certificatem or a diploma. Sometimes if one wants to go study for more opportunities a 4-year span in college can get a person a Bachelor's degree.
Career Growth: The employment for this career outlook is -10%. So it basically it isn't exactly growing rather it is being projected to decline unfortunately in the upcoming years from now to 2031. 
Reflection: This career path is not bad at all, it can really be useful and for sure expand to other branches in computer science. Although the employment rate is decreasing it doesn't mean that computer programmers aren't essential to our community and other roles within the field can open. There are lots of skills that need to be acquired but overtime these skills can drop as one studies to get at least an associates or a bachelor's degree. It is definetly a challenging career but it is rewarding towards the end.

# October 15, 2024
Coding can be very useful in different settings as it can help improve problem-solving skills, can help industries out, and it can enhance creativity and or collaboration. Problem-solving skills can improve as you learn the language. By learning the language whether that be java or python, you are basically able to create and revise work that has had errors. For example sometimes coding errors may occur and that requires problem-solving skills to be used in order to identify and make a change for the program to work smoothly. Industries can also greatly benefit as for example in the medical fields records need to be stored in data bases to ensure that people receive the right treatements and that their identity along with medical history is safe and classified. Of course this requires the use of computers and coding in order to ensure that everything is stored properly. Also, people like Mark Zuckerberg who owns Facebook, requires his app to use coding as bugs, system updates, and the overall foundation of the app relies on it. Furthermore, coding allows the creativity and collaboration between people to grow. Take for example us students, we are using coding and at some point we will use it to create our own things such as a website for fun or to collaborate with our peers to solve a problem or again create something new with the skills we acquire overtime. This is why coding in different situations is super beneficial.

# October 21, 2024
AI has impacted our society in many ways both negatively and positively overtime in multiple areas like healthcare, education, and transportation. Firstly, focusing on the negatives it is important to note that AI exists because we have developed it. Obviously, as we know we make many mistakes and during the process AI can be affected during its programmation. We may include unintentional mistakes that can significantly affect the results that the bot provides in the long run. It could have biases that should have not been implemented. Furthermore, looking at it in a much broader perspective, AI has taken a revolutionary turn in which it takes control of multiple areas with ease. It is adaptive and it takes in whatever information is at its reach. Some information may be flawed and it can cause issues in the long run and negatively impact industries like the healthcare systems specifically. Everything must be precise to ensure that patients get the right treatments, but with errors in the way patients are at risk. This expands to other industries as well and it can cause many issues that can slow down processes like in eduction in which students may use AI to cheat on assignments and therefore not retain any valueable information being taught to them. As for the positives, AI is a very good tool if used properly. If AI is being used to solve really complex problems it can be beneficial. It provides quick and rapid answers and it can actually help fix errors faster than a human being. It can provide services to multiple people who need it and it makes work more efficient. AI is also a great tool to secure things and manage programs and more. It can even be great when paired with humans as we both adapt to work together and solve problems with our own abilities, as AI is not able to solve certain things like we do. Really, both are dependent in each other no matter how we see AI as. It has its ups and downs and that's ok, because as we continue to innovate, AI becomes a tool that can greatly boost our advancments or sometimes may be a slow down in which we must use our solving skills to fix.

# October 28, 2024
Computer science and technology can be beneficial but also harmful when it comes to elections. Sure, computer science can help count numbers faster and effienciently to reduce the long time to count thousands of votes. It also helps campaigns to make themselves know prior to voting on social media. It enhances the overall presentation and allows for running candidates to make themselves known by many in rapid rates. The downside of such use is that many times some votes may be counted more than once or missed which can cause an error with the numbers and therefore cause a false result. As for in social media, the computer science and technology can be used to harm the imagine of a candidate. There is a high chance that the technology can be used by people with malicious intentions. Voices can be replicated and the candidates social media can be hacked into. Therefore, false information may be spread and people will most likely believe it and be influenced to change their vote without a plausable reason. There is so much more that can go well when it comes to using these tools in times of elections, but it is important to note that even if something is really good, it can still have its downfalls. So yes, it can help candidates and the people overall, but it can also damage the candidates image and the voters voice.

# November 04, 2024
Our personal and sensitive information is something we must keep away from anyone that could pose a threat. That is why it is important to always be careful when publishing anything online. We must ensure that our personal information isn't exposed to the many possible threats that could appear with time. Whether it be people hacking, companies taking information from you without your permission and much more. It can go as far as your identity being taken if you are not careful. In order to keep that type of data secure you must always ensure that you first off, don't put anything super personal up. What ever goes online stays online despite you deleting it. You must then only publish anything you want that doesn't involve personal information like location, age, etc. Secure your account with a strong password and only share files with those you trust or know. Furthermore, if you don't want something to be seen by thousands of people. make sure that the setting is switched to private so that only you can see it. No, I was always warned and supervised by my parents to ensure that nothing personal went out to the digital world. This would keep me safe from any danger that floats around on the web. If you work collaborately make sure you know who you are working with. Don't give out any personal information at all to those you are collaborating with unless required or crucial. Even then be weary and ensure that it isn't any information such as credit card info, social security, or passwords. At the end there is always a digital footprint that sticks to you and can affect you personally. So it is important to take care of your data online as it can greatly influence many other factors later on.

# November 12, 2024
Currently the event that has specifically impacted my community the most has been the elections. Many people have gone to polls to vote and some have sent their vote through mail. Some votes have been counted by computer systems that obviously require specific programmization that helps quickly establish votes and help give more accurate projections. This basically is data analysis and overall how technology can be beneficial. Although, there are many skeptics who claim that the systems may have been hacked into and votes were changed or dismissed. This problem can be fixed with the advanced technology that currently exists. 
It is possible that this may have occured and as we know data analysis is very crucial especially in events like these. Specifically our advancements have allowed us to use problem-solving skills to fix issues like these in our technology. Stengthening our systems and learning ways to prevent hackers from interfering with very sensitive topics. Furthermore, using the new advancements can actually provide users that security when casting their votes and their personal information. Apart from helping the democracy overall by avoided fraud. In this world technology along with advancements calls for updates and growing minds to catch up to the demands that rise overtime which is crucial in our dependent world.

# November 18, 2024
Technology in the food industry can be super beneficial but it also has its downs. First and for most, technology has enabled us to process things faster. Workers can now use the technology to collect data, analyze, proceed with payments, and ensure that fraud is minimized. It also saves time and allows for faster productivity in the long run. The new technology has enabled us to be able to order things online as well. This helps us receive not just our food but give us time to do other things as it arrives. It also helps transactions to move forward faster than manually. Our technology also informs us about nutritional facts and caloric intake which can be helpful for many of us to ensure that we stay healthy and safe. Now although it has many more benefits it also has its flaws. Such include malfunction when analyzing data which can distrupt the agricultural process significantly. It can also take away jobs from people and it can also promote "lazyness." What is meant by lazyness is that we will become more dependent on the technology, preventing us from using our communication skills to use. It also takes away from our own productivity especially if we are relient on our advancements to take care of simple tasks revolving around food. It really takes away that social aspect from us and promotes impulsive decision makings especially since everything is a button away from being delivered to us. It really has its own risks but again it determines on how it is being used. As part of the economy yes it is a really great tool but for users it can be very tempting and it can affect our mental and physical well being in the long run if not used carefully.

# December 02, 2024
Artificial Intelligence has come a long way and something that past generations had dreamed of were robots. In August 19, 2021, Elon Musk developed the Tesla Robot which on average costs between $20-$30 thousand dollars. It can do a range of things such as moving things, cleaning, and even being a companion for someone. It is really advanced and it is great because it can accomplish tasks that we may not be able to do easily. Helping disabled people or just simply helping anyone who needs an extra hand around. This is exciting news because it goes to prove just how much our technology has evolved. So much as to creating something that can serve as a tool in our world. There are some concerns though when it comes to this Tesla robot like any other piece of technology. Lots of people worry that their robot could potentially be hacked and it can affect their lives greatly in return as it can be possessed by a person wil malicious intent. Data privacy can be taken and so much could possibly go wrong. It is fairly new so the software has to be constantly updated and revised to prevent anything being leaked from the consumers. All in all, the Tesla Robot is a prime example of how much our technology has advanced, how it can greatly make a change by interacting with us and helping us out with simple day to day tasks. Offering support in simple yet much needed ways. In a field this could help serve as an innovative example or even a special agent that can help communicate in various environments with the built-in knowledge. It is always important to consider the risks there are with it though. Like any other technology our privacy is always at stakes so it is important to consider the possible actions that can be done to prevent any accidents from occuring. Fixing it, updating, and expanding our knowledge not just in innovating a new piece but into innovating something that will help strengthen the armor of our data. (Source https://nypost.com/2024/10/11/business/heres-when-elon-musks-optimus-robots-could-come-to-your-house/).

# December 9, 2024
Brain rot is a term that has been brought up recently with new content coming up. It normally is strange content that makes absolutely no sense yet makes people laugh. Such examples include Skibidi toilet which is really just a toilet with a man's head. It is very weird and creepy yet young children are obsessed with it and continuously watch it. It definitely affects the mental health of young minds for sure. They become addicted and they normalize what should not be normalized. Nowadays, there is even children walking around singing the songs from this form of brain rot and they believe it is something funny and cool when it is just something inappropriate and should inflict some sort of negative feeling. This is an example of slop, like it has no creativity, it is really just bland and it has no story or value behind it. It just seems to exist and people like it because it is supposedly funny and cool. More of these things came out overtime and overtime it seems like unfunny and strange things are gaining popularity while actual creative works aren't as highlighted today. Definitely, as the years have gone I've encountered random content that makes no sense yet people keep refering to it and making jokes about it, when in reality it is just nonsense being tossed back and forth. There is definitely a way of keeping things away from brain rot and actually still be equally as entertaining. Fun animations, colors, plots, and music could engage the audience and make it more eye catching. There is many more ways of making things less brain rotted and it could actually help younger minds stay away from things that are absolutely bad and don't help them at all growing up. 

# December 16, 2024
Yes, I'm super excited and definitely looking forward for the winter break. I just hope I can catch up on my sleeping schedule and spend time with my friends and family.

# January 08, 2025
1. Looking back, I will say I liked doing Code Combat. It was pretty entertaining because of the visuals and I feel like more of that would help things stick. It was a good started to jump into coding and it basically explained the functions pretty clearly.
2. Honestly more projects that engage. I know I didn't participate in them because I am doing something apart, but I feel like projects that can bring everyone together to working would be cool.
3. I haven't felt that strong liking for coding but it is something cool and I know that it can be useful for future interests I build upon. A certification in Python which is something I am currently working on is something I'd like to obtain with hard work and dedication. It is just so many words and lots to process which kind of throws me back but I know with time and patience I can get it if possible.

# January 13, 2025
The shift is going to be harmful for humanity in regards to jobs because human employees will be replaced by AI. Something that has no emotions or feelings, that can work for an extended amount of time unlike human beings. It is possible that they will replace us and take jobs that would be considered too difficult, but that would mean many who are qualified would lose their jobs. There is also that possibility that AI can be used to help support those who already work and it can actually make their time usage more efficient so that they can move through things faster. If things continue to get more challenging in terms of getting a job, not just in the programming field but everywhere, I'd focus on dedicating myself in a field were technology can't really provide services to their best potential. Always considering what I am passionate about but specifically taking on a job that requires human thought and emotions to produce something new. Not something that is taken replicated and worthless in the sense that it isn't original or heartfelt. There will be many people who are unemployed but their knowledge is never going to be discarded as their roles can potentially be used to work with AI or to help fix AI. It can also be used in different fields and it would be good at the end. Either way for those who don't have much experience or couldn't receive an education may suffer and at the end the unemployed population would rise and more economic challenges may follow through in society as people struggle to build an income due to their replacements.

# January 22, 2025
Government intervention can be helpful to ensure users privacy if it isn't being respected, but at the same time that is a job that developers need to resolve. Furthermore, by intervining on something users are agreeing to, they are censoring users. TikTok is an app that a lot of people use to spread information and to express themselves and with the banning, users could have faced censorship if prolonged. I do not thing banning the app is the right way to solve a problem, instead the developers should figure out how to better address the problem and figure out a resolution for it. Simply banning it won't solve it for other people who use it world wide. Some ways that these companies could solve it is by ensuring that they program data security and other privacy formats to ensure that no data is leaked or shared. They should also warn and inform their users about sharing their informaton if they are. A form of consent would be very beneficial and it wouldn't be illegal if the user acknowledges it and goes through with it. From this I have learned that apps shouldn't necessarily be banned because a lot of people enjoy using them. Rather than finding an easy solution which is prohibiting its users from using it, solutions to secure data, and prevent sharing across platforms or companies, new security systems need to be made and informing users needs to be essential when having a person sign up to use it. There is nothing wrong as long as the person consents to it. Government shouldn't always get involved too but rather enforce security for the public and explain their propositions.

# January 27, 2025
| Name     | Car | Mistake |
| :------- | :-- | :------ |
| Jimmy    |Honda Civic     |  Drilled hole in gas tank       |
| Kayla    |GMC Sierra     | Fixed wrong problem        |
| Bart     |Toyota Corolla     |Left stains on carpet         |
| Harrison |Subaru Forester     | Left the oil cap off        |

# February 3, 2025
Computer science now plays a major role in big corporations such as aviation companies. Many times it is beneficial as it facilitates the work and makes systems run better. In most cases though, technology can fail and create accidents that can lead to fatality. Dangerous features such as automation and AI in aviation can pose as a threat sometimes and that's because if a problem comes to occur, the technology would not be able to react adjustly. Sometimes rather than avoiding object or dangerous obstacles along the way can lead to disasters as autmation brings the plane or helicopter towards the object. Furthermore, sometimes automation and AI in aviation aren't able to detect the dangers which unfortunately if the pilot isn't paying attention the cost is high as a result. 

In order to ensure that these advanced pieces of technology we work, we must learn how to make them functional to predicting accidents. If they are able to detect the dangers more easily, then there is a high possibility that many accidents can be prevented if the AI in aviation predicts and estimates safety routes in short periods of time to ensure that the plane can move accordingly based on its speed and the speed of the object. This would definitely be an important addition and a new measure of safety even with manual pilots who may not see dangers up ahead. It would be revolutionary and although it may not be 100% accurate it can at least save lives.

# February 11, 2025

| Shape     | Color | Count |
| :------- | :-- | :------ |
| Circle    | Green     |  7      |
| Square    | Yellow     | 5|
| Hexagon    | Brown     | 6    |
| Triangle | Purple     | 4     |
| OCtagon | Red     | 3      |

# February 18, 2025
This last week I learned about the different stages after the death of a person. It basically allows medical examiners estimate when a person died which is really important when it comes to investigating a scene. There are multiple parts such as the algor mortis, the clouding of the corneas, the rigor mortis, the livor mortis, the decomposition, and the insect activity. These I found interesting because it fascinates me how much is done behind the scenes when determining the death of a person. It isn't just about the evidence we can see directly, but also the evidence the body leaves behind externally and internally. Furthermore, this opens my eyes to something new that may allow me to broaden my career options before it is to late. This I fortunately learned it in my Principles of Biomedical Science class and it has been connecting to a case thast we have been working on to determine the death of a character. It is super interesting and intriguing in my opinion, and I like all the thinking and analyzing to it. 

# February 24, 2025
Technology could bridge generational language gaps while maintaining professionalism and cultural awareness by providing examples and quick definitions on the slang used. Sometimes there is a way to ensure that some abbreviations or slang can be translated back to its original form which makes it easier to type things out. Currently iPhones have that abilitiy and it is useful to send quick messages with three or more letters that automatically transform into sentences. This is honestly great to ensure that both adults and the younger generations understand them and can use them faster and easier to communicate what they need without a problem. It would make it easier to interpret rather than having to figure out what each abbreviation is, especially for older generations who have some catching up to do. The only thing that has to be worked on is to make it be implemented across various technological platforms. This way it isn't limited to only a certain group, but rather a larger audience of people. In this way lots of users old and young can enjoy the form of communication there is without there being a sense of being left out and "uneducated" in the new language developing in younger gens. 

Of course there will be challenges that come to this when having to implement slang translations. Across various platforms people need to code in the function and ensure that it does not run into problems while users use it. Another problem would be having to keep up with the evolving laguage all the time. There is awlays new slang words used on a day to day basis so it is important that it is always monitored and coded into the system to ensure that there isn't any missing pieces of nformation that can potentially stop a person from communicating easily. One last thing to note is that slang will most likely replace lots of common sentences used and it will transform our communcation skills greatly overtime as we begind to rely on slang translations. It could also mean that people will learn new words that aren't always professional, but at the end of the day it connects and builds that bridge between each generation. Leaving no one behind in the progress and overtime become a useful tool that can make jobs easier in the work force or the education system.

# March 3, 2025
| Name     | Power | Challenge |
| :------- | :-- | :------ |
| Zara    | Telekenisis     |  Secure Building      |
| Aether    | Weather Manipulation     |Prevent Assassination|
| Thorne    | Invisibility     | Underwater Rescue  |
| Silver | Mind Control     | Retrieve Stolen Goods|
| Tangier | Shapeshifting     | Extract Prisoner      |

# March 17, 2025
I used a lot of social media on my phone and a computer to play video games during my spring break. It definitely helped me stay entertained whenever I wasn't outside or whenever I finished my chores around the house. It also helped me investigate stuff about my college and requirements overall which was helpful. Also whenever I was with my family it was something we could all enjoy together to watch shows, movies, or youtube videos. For me it also helped me communicate with my friends and my parents family. To order food and to get reminders on the latest news or drama going on.

Some challenges were sometimes my slow wifi that would come in when everyone was using it or downloading a game. Normally my wifi is pretty fast and it can support things but it always has a struggle if everyone is connected or if someone is downloading a game onto their computer. As for the overall use, technology can be super beneficial and can even be considered a tool. Sure entertainment can be conceived in various different forms, but sometimes staying indoors and watching something or playing a video game can be fun and distracting. It also allows for us to obtain information globally which can be useful for school projects or assignments that require outside information. It also helps teachers find plans or get logistics on things that they can focus on based on student reports and all. It overall is a super useful tools which of course may hae its crashes from time to time but can be at times reliable for key information.

# March 18, 2025
Barbie You Can Be Anything

# March 24, 2025
The technological advantages have made the game maybe more interesting to fans. From allowing them to join lives in the comfort of their home for free. It also allows them to catch up with anything they missed. It is crucial now since people cannot always afford the espensive tickets to experience it in person. 

Beyond this, the technology has made it cheap and easy. The recaps available help users understand what is happening in the game. In terms of money, people can make bets and feel a sense of thrill as they trust the predictions made based on the statistics. This allows the tournament to gain funds and to catch the attention of fans and people building an interest. It definitely brings a new modern way of experiencing a tournament. More support nationwide is given and many people can enjoy it at once with additional features unavailable in person. Of course this can be taken advantage of by people who stream illegally. 

# March 31, 2025

Currently I have been feeling a little bit sad but my mental state is pretty good. My biggest problem right now that is causing me to feel sad is my relationship which is doing good but this weekend there was a slight issue that has led me to feel sad but because I have become a bit sensitive. Everything was solved through communication and everything, it is just me who has been kind of a problem because I keep making small things into bigger things in my head. I'm aware of it and honestly the best thing I can do is simply continue to communicate and express myself as best as I can to them if I feel this way rather than keeping quiet and letting myself overthink things that aren't really happening. Taking my time to reflect and everything is the best thing. I am trying right now to give myself time to calm down and also to communicate without worries of anything.

# April 07, 2025

AI has proved to many that it can be a helpful resource in many areas. Recently, AI has proved to be a great source to provide students an education within a short time. Students who do school online with AI certified apps are doing coursework in two hours at their pace. Learning more effieciently and succeeding at higher rates than those who attend school the traditional way. Their skills have also shown an enhancement as they are not only learning crucial work but life skills too. Students report that they are able to learn from their mistakes unlike when going to school physically, hence their significant improvement and score averages compared to their peers. Better yet, the app has been approved from k-12 which enables it to be accessed by everyone regardless of their age.

This could be implemented and used by my peers and myself. It doesn't simply have to be to transition us to online learning, but rather as a supplement if needed. It can help struggling students to learn more effectively and understand their mistakes to improve and catch up with the rest of the class. It would also help them study and review for any exams coming up as well as allow them to go beyond expectations quickly. Differen methods can be taught to them that they will be able to understand better with the app working with them specifically, rather than with multiple students like in a traditional setting. This way all needs will be met and not only will the school benefit but students will also in the long-run.
